doc/execution.rst, before:


.. _execution:

***************
Execution Model
***************

In contrast to conventional programming, XOD is data flow language rather than
control flow. That means there is no such thing as instruction pointer that
determines what command will be executed at next moment. Instead, updates are
done in instant transactions where all data is evaluated simultaneously.

Static and Dynamic Parts
========================

Links and nodes are static. They can’t be changed at run time. The static
structure makes XOD programs easy to understand and foresee their behavior. You
can always know what changes will affect which nodes just by looking at
links.  And these connections doesn’t depend on a current or past state of any
objects.

What makes the behavior dynamic are data updates. Data flows along links
from outputs to inputs and cause cascade updates until the patch is fully
evaluated to the defined state.

Data updates are initiated by some external impact. It can be a clock signal
to perform regular updates or a signal from a sensor, for example, that will
make a device respond to an event of the real world.

Signals
=======

Links are flow lanes for your data. Likewise, wires conduct electricity
links conduct data. Electricity spread over with semi-infinite speed.
You may think of data in the same way.

Unlike electricity in wires, however, data is granular and flows along
links only when updated. A moment of data update is called *a signal*
in XOD.

At moments when there is no data update on a link (most of the time) the
link is said to be *idle*.

Signal Value
============

A signal can have payload data associated with it. The data is called *value*.
The type of value is defined by input/output pin type. It can be one of:

* ``pulse`` — no data associated with the signal, used for signals that just
  describe the fact of something has occurred;
* ``bool`` — either ``true`` (aka “yes”, logical one) or ``false`` (aka “no”, logical zero);
* ``number`` — integer or real number, infinity or special ``NaN`` (Not a Number) value;
* ``string`` — textual value that can be empty, single character, a line or
  multiple lines of text;

Besides any bool, number or string signal value can be ``null``. Null is *not* the
same as ``false``, ``0`` or empty string. It denotes a missing value. Nulls are
used for default values, optional values, and erroneous values.

Also, there are stared types that are suffixed with an asterisk, e.g.
``number*``. Stared types are ordered lists or so-called tuples used to pack
several homogenous values into one.

The type of signal can’t change while it flows from an output to an input,
i.e. you can’t connect pins of a different type. However, some nodes 
can convert signal type if used as a medium.

Buffering
=========

Once an input receives a signal, it *buffers* (cache, capture, hold) its value
so that a node could use it for updates initiated by other input
signals anytime in future.

Receiving a signal again on a particular input overwrites buffered value with
a new one. So input pins always store most recent signal’s value.

Before an input receive any signal it buffers ``null`` value. However,
a particular node can override the default value for some of its pins.

Transactions
============

Despite many values are continuous in nature, e.g. current time, ambient
temperature, sound pressure level, signals in XOD are not continuous.
So updates in XOD are always discrete.

For example, once the system captures temperature signal from a sensor it takes
the new value as constant. It passes the signal along links causing connected
nodes to be updated. They could initiate own output signals as a response
to that input signal. These new signals are passed further, and the process is
repeated until all nodes that depend directly or indirectly on the original signal
are re-evaluated. Only after that the system can take in subsequent temperature
signal to update again.

Such cascade node update caused by a signal is called *transaction*.

Although nothing can be done instantly, you should think of transactions
as moment atomic updates where no external impact is possible until everything
will be evaluated in response to an initiating signal.

Transactions can happen one after another in milliseconds rate appear to be
a real-time reaction to external changes.

Vice versa, transactions can occasionally occur in response to rare events.
This lets processor sleep most of the time and preserve battery charge.

Order of Evaluation
===================

Once you get the idea of transactions, it’s intuitive enough to understand which
node will update after which. For the sake of completeness let’s outline
evaluation rules of a transaction.

1. A new transaction starts when there is a signal generated by some node’s output.
2. Any signals coming from outside while a transaction is in progress are postponed
   until current transaction finishes.
3. Each node is evaluated at most once during a particular transaction.
4. A node is evaluated only after all nodes that it depends on (i.e. linked to
   outputs) are evaluated.

Example
-------

Consider an example of power quality monitor. We want to enable an alarm when there
is a voltage (greater than zero), but it is out of desired range from 11.6 to
12.1 volts.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor.*
   :align: center

Although the same can be done with fewer nodes in a more compact way, let’s look
at this example to understand node evaluation order step by step.

First, voltage sensor detects a voltage change. Let’s say its value is 12 volts.
Voltage signal is spread over three outgoing links to three other node inputs as
shown below.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p1.*
   :align: center

After that, these three nodes should be updated. The precise order does not matter
because they do not have cross-dependencies, and it is not predictable at all.
Let’s imagine that leftmost node (equality) would be the first. It compares incoming
signal ``12`` with a buffered value ``0``. The result is ``false``, and that value
is passed as an output signal further.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p2.*
   :align: center

We are still have three nodes that should be updated. Now there is an input signal
for “or” node, and it should react. However, this would violate the rule #4 since nodes
that “or” depends on indirectly are still not evaluated. So “greater” node is
chosen.

It compares signal ``12`` with buffered constant ``11.6`` and outputs ``true`` since
12 is greater than 11.6.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p3.*
   :align: center

There are still three dirty nodes. However, the only one that can be processed next is
“less” node because other two depend on it. The “less” node is evaluated to ``true``.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p4.*
   :align: center

Oh, now we have just two node candidates to be updated. Since “or” depends on “and”,
the later one is evaluated first. It finally sends ``true`` to “or” node that waits
here from the second step.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p5.*
   :align: center

If we have some very quick voltage sensor, it can try to push new update right at
the current moment. However, we have not finished with current transaction yet because there
are still dirty nodes. So that new update signal will be postponed until we are done.

Node “or” finally got signals for each input, so it is evaluated and passes ``true``
to its output.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p6.*
   :align: center

Now “not” node is outdated. It is evaluated and pass ``false`` further.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p7.*
   :align: center

As a final result, alarm node receives ``false`` signal and the alarm is not enabled.
That is fine because input voltage falls into permissible range.

At this moment transaction completes, and we are ready to start the new one to handle
voltage meter update that came few steps ago.

Restrictions
------------

To make this rules feasible patch graph should follow few restrictions that are
built into XOD:

1. A patch should be an *acyclic* graph. I.e. a node cannot send an output signal back
   to its input or an input of any ascendant. So creation of links that cause graph loops
   is prohibited in XOD.
2. In a case of simultaneous signals, the resolution priority on conflicting input should
   be explicit and well defined. So connecting more than one link to an input is
   not possible as well.

There is a special “feedback” node to deal with the first restriction and “merge” node
to deal with the second.

Commit message:

feat(doc): add pure and impure nodes

doc/execution.rst, after:


.. _execution:

***************
Execution Model
***************

In contrast to conventional programming, XOD is data flow language rather than
control flow. That means there is no such thing as instruction pointer that
determines what command will be executed at next moment. Instead, updates are
done in instant transactions where all data is evaluated simultaneously.

Static and Dynamic Parts
========================

Links and nodes are static. They can’t be changed at run time. The static
structure makes XOD programs easy to understand and foresee their behavior. You
can always know what changes will affect which nodes just by looking at
links.  And these connections doesn’t depend on a current or past state of any
objects.

What makes the behavior dynamic are data updates. Data flows along links
from outputs to inputs and cause cascade updates until the patch is fully
evaluated to the defined state.

Data updates are initiated by some external impact. It can be a clock signal
to perform regular updates or a signal from a sensor, for example, that will
make a device respond to an event of the real world.

Signals
=======

Links are flow lanes for your data. Likewise, wires conduct electricity
links conduct data. Electricity spread over with semi-infinite speed.
You may think of data in the same way.

Unlike electricity in wires, however, data is granular and flows along
links only when updated. A moment of data update is called *a signal*
in XOD.

At moments when there is no data update on a link (most of the time) the
link is said to be *idle*.

Signal Value
============

A signal can have payload data associated with it. The data is called *value*.
The type of value is defined by input/output pin type. It can be one of:

* ``pulse`` — no data associated with the signal, used for signals that just
  describe the fact of something has occurred;
* ``bool`` — either ``true`` (aka “yes”, logical one) or ``false`` (aka “no”, logical zero);
* ``number`` — integer or real number, infinity or special ``NaN`` (Not a Number) value;
* ``string`` — textual value that can be empty, single character, a line or
  multiple lines of text;

Besides any bool, number or string signal value can be ``null``. Null is *not* the
same as ``false``, ``0`` or empty string. It denotes a missing value. Nulls are
used for default values, optional values, and erroneous values.

Also, there are stared types that are suffixed with an asterisk, e.g.
``number*``. Stared types are ordered lists or so-called tuples used to pack
several homogenous values into one.

The type of signal can’t change while it flows from an output to an input,
i.e. you can’t connect pins of a different type. However, some nodes 
can convert signal type if used as a medium.

Buffering
=========

Once an input receives a signal, it *buffers* (cache, capture, hold) its value
so that a node could use it for updates initiated by other input
signals anytime in future.

Receiving a signal again on a particular input overwrites buffered value with
a new one. So input pins always store most recent signal’s value.

Before an input receive any signal it buffers ``null`` value. However,
a particular node can override the default value for some of its pins.

Transactions
============

Despite many values are continuous in nature, e.g. current time, ambient
temperature, sound pressure level, signals in XOD are not continuous.
So updates in XOD are always discrete.

For example, once the system captures temperature signal from a sensor it takes
the new value as constant. It passes the signal along links causing connected
nodes to be updated. They could initiate own output signals as a response
to that input signal. These new signals are passed further, and the process is
repeated until all nodes that immediately depend on the original signal
are re-evaluated. Only after that the system can take in subsequent temperature
signal to update again.

Such cascade node update caused by a signal is called *transaction*.

Although nothing can be done instantly, you should think of transactions
as moment atomic updates where no external impact is possible until everything
will be evaluated in response to an initiating signal.

Transactions can happen one after another in milliseconds rate appear to be
a real-time reaction to external changes.

Vice versa, transactions can occasionally occur in response to rare events.
This lets processor sleep most of the time and preserve battery charge.

A particular branch of a transactional update completes when it stumbles upon
a node that has no outputs or any impure node.

Order of Evaluation
===================

Once you get the idea of transactions, it’s intuitive enough to understand which
node will update after which. For the sake of completeness let’s outline
evaluation rules of a transaction.

1. A new transaction starts when there is a signal generated by some node’s output.
2. Any signals coming from outside while a transaction is in progress are postponed
   until current transaction finishes.
3. Each node is evaluated at most once during a particular transaction.
4. A node is evaluated only after all nodes that it depends on (i.e. linked to
   outputs) are evaluated.

Example
-------

Consider an example of power quality monitor. We want to enable an alarm when there
is a voltage (greater than zero), but it is out of desired range from 11.6 to
12.1 volts.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor.*
   :align: center

Although the same can be done with fewer nodes in a more compact way, let’s look
at this example to understand node evaluation order step by step.

First, voltage sensor detects a voltage change. Let’s say its value is 12 volts.
Voltage signal is spread over three outgoing links to three other node inputs as
shown below.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p1.*
   :align: center

After that, these three nodes should be updated. The precise order does not matter
because they do not have cross-dependencies, and it is not predictable at all.
Let’s imagine that leftmost node (equality) would be the first. It compares incoming
signal ``12`` with a buffered value ``0``. The result is ``false``, and that value
is passed as an output signal further.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p2.*
   :align: center

We are still have three nodes that should be updated. Now there is an input signal
for “or” node, and it should react. However, this would violate the rule #4 since nodes
that “or” depends on indirectly are still not evaluated. So “greater” node is
chosen.

It compares signal ``12`` with buffered constant ``11.6`` and outputs ``true`` since
12 is greater than 11.6.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p3.*
   :align: center

There are still three dirty nodes. However, the only one that can be processed next is
“less” node because other two depend on it. The “less” node is evaluated to ``true``.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p4.*
   :align: center

Oh, now we have just two node candidates to be updated. Since “or” depends on “and”,
the later one is evaluated first. It finally sends ``true`` to “or” node that waits
here from the second step.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p5.*
   :align: center

If we have some very quick voltage sensor, it can try to push new update right at
the current moment. However, we have not finished with current transaction yet because there
are still dirty nodes. So that new update signal will be postponed until we are done.

Node “or” finally got signals for each input, so it is evaluated and passes ``true``
to its output.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p6.*
   :align: center

Now “not” node is outdated. It is evaluated and pass ``false`` further.

.. image:: images/execution/voltage-monitor-p7.*
   :align: center

As a final result, alarm node receives ``false`` signal and the alarm is not enabled.
That is fine because input voltage falls into permissible range.

At this moment transaction completes, and we are ready to start the new one to handle
voltage meter update that came few steps ago.

Restrictions
------------

To make this rules feasible patch graph should follow few restrictions that are
built into XOD:

1. A patch should not have loops involving only pure functional nodes. I.e. pure functional
   node cannot send an output signal back to its input directly or indirectly. So creation
   of links that cause graph loops is prohibited in XOD.
2. In a case of simultaneous signals, the resolution priority on conflicting input should
   be explicit and well defined. So connecting more than one link to an input is
   not possible as well.

There is a special “capture” node to deal with the first restriction and “merge” node
to deal with the second.
